Article :- [GitHub - acdlite/react-fiber-architecture: A description of React's new core algorithm, React Fiber](https://github.com/acdlite/react-fiber-architecture)

- Summary
    
    Reconciliation is the algorithm behind what is popularly understood as the "virtual DOM." A high-level description goes something like this: when you render a React application, a tree of nodes that describes the app is generated and saved in memory. This tree is then flushed to the rendering environment — for example, in the case of a browser application, it's translated to a set of DOM operations. When the app is updated (usually via `setState`), a new tree is generated. The new tree is diffed with the previous tree to compute which operations are needed to update the rendered app.
    
    • Diffing of lists is performed using keys. Keys should be "stable, predictable, and unique.”
    
    Reconciliation
    │
    ├── Initial Render
    │   ├── Create Virtual DOM Tree
    │   └── Flush to Real DOM
    │
    ├── Update Trigger
    │   ├── State/Props Change
    │   └── New Virtual DOM Tree
    │
    ├── Diffing Algorithm
    │   ├── Compare Old vs New Tree
    │   ├── Identify Differences
    │   └── Compute Minimal DOM Operations
    │
    ├── Commit Phase
    │   ├── Apply DOM Updates
    │   └── UI Updated
    │
    └── Optimizations
    ├── Batch Updates
    ├── Prioritize User Interactions
    └── Delay Non-Critical Work
    

key points are:

- In a UI, it's not necessary for every update to be applied immediately; in fact, doing so can be wasteful, causing frames to drop and degrading the user experience.
- Different types of updates have different priorities — an animation update needs to complete more quickly than, say, an update from a data store.
- A push-based approach requires the app (you, the programmer) to decide how to schedule work. A pull-based approach allows the framework (React) to be smart and make those decisions for you.

- Fiber
    - pause work and come back to it later.
    - assign priority to different types of work.
    - reuse previously completed work.
    - abort work if it's no longer needed.
